report draft.txt
Introduction and background

Gesture recognition is one of the main part of our projects. Our armband collects the MMG and accelerometer signals from the users and uses these inputs to interpret the commands from the user. The user commands include two aspects: directions and gestures. Directional commands are interpreted by the NU interface with the accelerometers, gyroscopes and magnetometers, while the gesture commands are classified with the mechanomyogram signals (MMG). Gesture interpretations are carried out with a pretrained Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) calibrated for each user. Constructed in python, the CNN receives data transmitted from the NU interface, classifies the gestures, and either pass the information back to the NU interface for simulation or uses them directly for quadcopter control. 

challenges


Background
    Neural Networks
    Neural networks are universal approximators for functions that may have large numbers of inputs and outputs. Supervised learning is a branch of machine learning problems, where the desired outputs are fed with the inputs to the machine learning algorithms, so that the underlying function that maps the outputs to the inputs could be approximated. In this project, our neural network learns to map the MMG signals to the gesture/noise classifications.



    Convolutional Neural Networks
    CNN is a type of neural network widely used in modern computer vision tasks that excels at identifying local features. CNN treats the adjacent inputs as local patterns as oppose to unrelated data points. CNNs are charactorised by convolutional layers, where neurons are arranged in 3 dimensions: width, height and depth, and each layer of neuron in the depth direction is a learnable filter, or feature extractor. For instance, in image classifications, these neural groups may be excited by local features like edges or brightness gradient in a certain direction, converting the images to a map of neuron excitation. A few fully connected layers are then trained to classify the image contents based on the neuron excitation map.

    



Data transmission
Data collection
Neural network
Test and visualization

